talk.md, before:

OOD Rules
=========

![odd](../img/planet-of-teh-ood.png)

----------

Hamish Downer
@hgd20
github.com/foobacca

----------

ood cartoon

-----

## The Rules

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5
    assert len(method.params) <= 4

-----

![free the ood](../img/free-the-ood.jpg)

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5
    assert len(method.params) <= 4

    class Meta:
        # you must persuade your pair
        # if you want to break a rule

-----

## Example Time





-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5
    assert len(method.params) <= 4

    class Meta:
        # you must persuade your pair
        # if you want to break a rule

-----

![may the oods be ever in your favour](../img/oods-in-your-favour.jpg)

-----

## github.com/foobacca/ood-rules-talk

Sandi Metz, POODR

Commit message:

start adding notes, and image of UpdateView inheritance

talk.md, after:

OOD Rules
=========

![odd](../img/planet-of-teh-ood.png)

----------

Hamish Downer
@hgd20
github.com/foobacca

----------

ood cartoon

-----

## The Rules

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5
    assert len(method.params) <= 4

-----

![free the ood](../img/free-the-ood.jpg)

-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5
    assert len(method.params) <= 4

    class Meta:
        # you must persuade your pair
        # if you want to break a rule

-----

## Example Time




-----

## Inheritance

### Is it a good idea?

------

## Inheritance

Django Class-Based Views

![Django CBV UpdateView](../img/UpdateView-inheritance.svg)





-----

## The Rules

    assert len(class) <= 100
    assert len(method) <= 5
    assert len(method.params) <= 4

    class Meta:
        # you must persuade your pair
        # if you want to break a rule

-----

![may the oods be ever in your favour](../img/oods-in-your-favour.jpg)

-----

## github.com/foobacca/ood-rules-talk

Sandi Metz, POODR
